---
layout: post
title:  Golang bridging
date:   2016-10-19 12:09:07 +0200
categories: golang
---

The Go tools are capable of static and dynamic linking with other libraries, and also there is possbility to create static and dynamic library, therefore it is possible to create a bridge between golang and the other language both ways.

### Creating shared and static library in Go

Let's create library we will use in external systems. Here is an example. File `example.go`:

	package main
    
	import "C"
	import "fmt"
    
	//export SayHello
	func SayHello(hello *C.char) {
	        fmt.Print(C.GoString(hello))
	}
    
	func main() {}

and `Makefile` that will contain build script that you can invoke by `make static` or `make shared`. I am not sure if my solution present shows a good practice. Feel free to send a PR with improvement.

	static test.a:
		go build -o example.a -buildmode=c-archive example.go
    
	shared test.dylib: 
		go build -o example.dylib -buildmode=c-shared example.go


As far as I understand the main function is neccecery to include into library, because the final product has to have for example GC rutines. The comment starting from `//export {function name}` tells the comiler that this the function will be called from the outside.

### Loading dynamic library in Go

File `example.cxx`:

	#include <stdio.h>
    
	extern "C" {
    
	void PrintHello(const char* u) {
	    printf("Hello: %s\n", u);
	}
    
	} // extern "C"

And `example.hxx:

    #pragma once
    
    void PrintHello(const char* u)
   
`extern "C" {}` informs the compiler that we want the function names to be preserved. That is, to not "mangle" the names as is done for C++ code.

Command for building a library `clang++ -dynamiclib  -o example.dylib example.cxx`

##### TODO Make calling dlib working

Now I am trying to call the library function `PrintHello` (but it doesn't work)

    package example
    
    // #cgo LDFLAGS: -L./ -lexample
    //
    // #include "example.hxx"
    // extern void PrintHello(const char* u);
    import "C"
	
    func main() {
        C.PrintHello(C.CString("Golanger"))
    }

#### Example of using library with FFI

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install ffi

require 'ffi'
module Example
  extend FFI::Library
  ffi_lib './example.dylib'
  attach_function :SayHello, [:string]
end

Example.SayHello("Hello")
{% endhighlight %}

More informations about FFI: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_function_interface

#### Call shared library from Python

    import ctypes
    libc = ctypes.CDLL('./example.dylib')
    libc.SayHello("Hello")

## Interesting websites

- https://blog.filippo.io/building-python-modules-with-go-1-5/
- https://id-rsa.pub/post/go15-calling-go-shared-libs-from-firefox-addon/