---
layout: post
title:  Bridging between languages
date:   2016-10-19 12:09:07 +0200
categories: programming
---

# Golang - shared and static library

The Go tools are capable of static and dynamic linking with other libraries, and also there is possbility to create static and dynamic library, therefore it is possible to create a bridge between golang and the other language both ways.

### Creating shared and static library in Go

Let's create a library. Here is an example.

File [`example.go`](https://github.com/artur-gurgul/codebook):

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "C"
import "fmt"

//export SayHello
func SayHello(hello *C.char) {
		fmt.Print(C.GoString(hello))
}

func main() {}
{% endhighlight %}

and `Makefile` that will contain build script that you can invoke by `make static` or `make shared`.

{% highlight make %}
static example.a:
	go build -o example.a -buildmode=c-archive example.go
shared example.dylib:
	go build -o example.dylib -buildmode=c-shared example.go
{% endhighlight %}

As far as I understand the main function is neccecery to include into library, because the final product has to have for example the GC rutines. The comment starting from `//export {function name}` tells the comiler that this the function will be called from the outside.

### Calling functrion from library in Go

First off we will create C++ library that we will use in out Go program.
File `example.cxx`:

{% highlight c++ %}
#include <stdio.h>

extern "C" {

void PrintHello(const char* u) {
    printf("Hello: %s\n", u);
}

}
{% endhighlight %}

And `example.hxx`:

{% highlight c++ %}
#pragma once
void PrintHello(const char* u)
{% endhighlight %}

`extern "C" {}` informs the compiler that we want the function names to be preserved. That is, to not "mangle" the names as is done for C++ code.
`Makefile`:

{% highlight make %}
static example.a:
	clang++ -c -Wall -o lib.o ./example.cxx
	ar rc ./libexample.a ./lib.o
shared example.dylib:
	clang++ -dynamiclib -o libexample.dylib example.cxx
{% endhighlight %}


#### Statically linking an example library 

{% highlight go %}
package main

// #cgo CFLAGS: -I.
// #cgo LDFLAGS: -L. -lexample
//
// #include <example.hxx>
import "C"

func main() {
	C.PrintHello(C.CString("Hello Golang"))
}
{% endhighlight %}

The program is linked staticaly with libexample when you build it.

#### Example of using library with FFI

{% highlight shell %}
gem install ffi
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'ffi'
module Example
  extend FFI::Library
  ffi_lib './example.dylib'
  attach_function :SayHello, [:string]
end

Example.SayHello("Hello")
{% endhighlight %}

More informations about FFI: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_function_interface

#### Call shared library from Python

{% highlight python %}
import ctypes
libc = ctypes.CDLL('./example.dylib')
libc.SayHello("Hello")
{% endhighlight %}

## Interesting websites

- https://blog.filippo.io/building-python-modules-with-go-1-5/
- https://id-rsa.pub/post/go15-calling-go-shared-libs-from-firefox-addon/